# Tree Traversal Algorithms - Research Paper

The research paper for designing and analysis of algorithms is based on tree traversals of binary tree which mainly focus on the research of ‘Pre-Order and Post-Order Traversals’. These traversal are based on the Python programming language which focuses on the programming design, experimental setup, analysis, and implementation of our semester’s research paper.

In computer science, a tree is an abstract model of a hierarchical structure. It consists of nodes with a parent-child relation. Applications of tree traversals include; organization charts, file systems, programming environments etc. A traversal visits the nodes of a tree in a systematic manner. In such a manner, pre-order traversals nodes are visited before its descendant, whereas post-order traversal nodes are visited after its descendants

The background information for tree traversals is presented as well as the design criteria for our research paper. The details and working behind how the algorithm works are examined, along with the implementations in the algorithm design. A detailed examination of the chosen specifications and the methodology at each step is examined and explained, as well as explanations for certain choices of component values. The courses’ structure and learning outcomes, the choices of tools and equipment, how the courses progressed, the lessons learned, the specifics of getting all the group members engaged, and the plans work aimed at improvement of programming and computer networking skills via the involvement in different aspects of programming are discussed. The results of a computer debugging results using the software ‘PyCharm’ are shown, along with the explanation of the output accordingly. By the end of implementing this research paper, we will able to understand the algorithm, implement it any development language and analyze the complexity of the algorithm.
